The Agile Book
Tracking the history of the Agile movement from the founders to today's world of Agile

Introduction - The Agile Agile Product Development Game

Today the world has gone Agile. If you want to improve just about anything then there is an Agile group or expert that will help you become Agile in your work and life. Walk into many organization that is building products with software and you'll find Scrum Masters or ScrumMasters along with Product Owners (never seen ProductOwners) with backlogs and burndowns fight for attention. Those that are not doing Scrum have branched out to the dizzing world of Kanban where everything is flowing and visible but they have given up on Scrum but not told anyone. Further up the organisation you may see scaled agile which has manage to tell teams how to work in sync perhaps to three month phases with just enough money to not actually finish anything. For those that have gone off reservation, have grown a beard, moved to a big city and refuse to use Jira are running DevOps without care or cander to the world outside of their continuous pipeline.

The reality for many organisations that are running agile the uplift they were expecting have not yet manifested themselves. The answer to not seeing improvements when using agile are the same as the bloodletters of the past medicine: do more; you are not being agile enough, throw off the constraints of the organisation then self-form into super-productive teams powered on the simple fuel of autonmny, purpose and mastery. The truth behind Agile is that it for some organisations Agile practices and cultures are very powerful. However these practices and cultures where around before a late weekend skiing trip in Snowbird one February in 2001 and many who haven't heard or Agile continue to operate. Companies that reject Agile and continue to work using 'Waterfall' still refuse to die but continue to work just as well by treating their staff well along with executing strategies well.

In this book we document how Agile got to this and ponder if Agile will actually make the world a better place or just continue to use a lot of stationary and Lego. The information you read here is sourced as best as possible but it doesn't go out its way to interview so called Agile gurus. The opinions expressed are those of the author.


The Agile Movement

Search Google for "when did Agile start" and you will get as your first result the agilemanifesto.org the date of Feb 11-13 2001. To be more precise it was Feb 13 when a meeting ended between 17 people who had agreed on a set of four values and the outline of 12 core principles. The reason why it was started here is the agreement of the 17 to not only agree to what they had worked on but to form the Agile Alliance from which all the Agile confusion comes. This is one of the key differences that has allowed Agile to be a rallying cry for the burnout developer for better working conditions to a commercial change package that would solve all ills just like Lean 10 years before it. It wasn't a framework, method, pattern, structure but a movement with an alliance. 

The details of what went on before and after the meeting at The Lodge, Snowbird, Feb 11-13, 2001
17 people turned up at Snowbird in Feb 2001 that went on to publish the Agile Manifesto for Software Development. This is the story on how they got there and why they were there.

The people that attended all had an interest in lighter, simpler ways of developing software within organizations. All had worked within organizations which had huge software and therefore product delays so they had come up with ways to make the development more effective. The meeting itself was called the Lightweight Methods Meeting *confirm* representing methods that were not widely used. The following methods were present: Adaptive Software Development (ASD), Extreme Programming (XP), Scrum, Feature Driven Development (FDD), Dynamic System Development Method (DSDM) along with attendees that hadn't created a method but where vocal is the world of needing better ways of developing software including testing and Model Driven Development. All these methods would be classified as Agile methods after the meeting (See Methods and Key Players). But the 17 people and the six methods where not equal in the amount of weight they had in the corporate world. Also the 17 weren't the only people that were invited just the 17 that turned up. To understand how we get to Agile today we need to understand the methods and players at the time and how they were formed and from there why some have become dominate and some largely forgotten. To begin with we turn to today's dominant framework from which all agile frameworks are based - Scrum.

Method: Adpative Software Development (ASD)
Key Players present: Jim Highsmith

Method: Crystal
Key Players present: Alistair Cockburn

Method: Dynamic System Development Method
Key Players present: Arie van Bennekum

Method: Extreme Programming
Key players present: Kent Beck, Ward Cunningham, Ron Jeffries, Robert Martin, James Greening, Martin Fowler

Method: Feature Driven Development (FDD)
Key Players present: Jon Kern

Method: Scrum
Key Players present: Mike Beedle, Ken Schwaber, Jeff Sutherland

Method: None (not a method)
Key Players present: Dave Thomas (prag), Andrew Hunt, Brian Marick, Stephen Mellor


Where did the name Agile come from?
At Snowbird everywhere there worked on index cards (the XP folks always had index cards to faciliatate


The Agile Alliance
The Scrum Alliance
Certification

Scaling Agile - the fight to kill Agile
Agile is now is

DevOps - XP is back but don't call it XP.

Agile Everywhere


** REFERENCEES **
_ Written Agile Meeting recollections _
Martin Fowler: https://martinfowler.com/articles/agileStory.html
Dave Thomas (prag): https://pragdave.me/blog/2007/02/24/some-agile-history.html
Jim Highsmith: http://agilemanifesto.org/history.html
Alistair Cockburn: ??
Robert Martin: https://sites.google.com/site/unclebobconsultingllc/the-founding-of-the-agile-alliance

_ Audio Recordings _

Jeff Sutherland: http://www.andycleff.com/2018/07/manifesto-co-author-interview-jeff-sutherland/
Arie van Bennekum: http://www.andycleff.com/2018/07/manifesto-co-author-interview-arie-van-bennekum/
Mike Beedle:
Jon Kern:

